[MUSIC PLAYING]
>> We need to find new
ways of living together,
and that is what I'm
looking for in my work.
>> I still believe bettering
the world and society through
technology.
>> I think the economy is one
reason why people are trying
to downsize, because
things are so expensive.
>> You use
already-manufactured objects,
then you bring it
into the architecture.
So it's like ready
made in architecture.
>> A lot of people just don't
like the fact that they've been
essentially forced into larger
spaces than they actually want
to be in.
>> We have to re-appropriate
existing things,
make new items out
of this garbage.
>> There's no question in my
mind that something that is
more compact is a
smarter way to build.
>> Now what we can do is we
can use all of this trash,
which is damaging the ecology,
and turn it into something
really beneficial.
>> I think I'm trying to
create a better world,
and in order to do that, we have
to experiment and try out other
ways of living.
>> I find it very interesting
to look at something and imagine
what its next life would become.
Given my interest
in mobility, I've
always looked at
structures that are outside
of architecture that move.
Part of my thinking has to do
with the nature of being human,
and what does that entail.
To some degree, we have
this desire to hold memory.
And often our memories
are stored in our attics,
because they're embedded
within the objects that we own.
But now memory can just
be stored on a hard drive.
So we can dispose or do away
with the collection of stuff
and live more lightly.
As humans, I really feel like we
were not meant to be sedentary.
Constantly when I
travel, I'm always
drawn to the people
that are building
with makeshift
construction pieces,
or using wheels in unusual ways.
And I looked further
and further into that,
and found that there's
an incredible history
of mobile lifestyles,
and it became my passion.
Recently I took an
old truck trailer
and craned it in over my house
and attached it to the back--
a structure that might
not be roadworthy anymore,
and rethought how I could skin
it, how I could create openings
in it, and make a contribution
to a dwelling that
then could also be moved
and relocated as needed.
I get really excited when
I'm driving down the freeway
and I see a truck go by.
And I immediately
start to fantasize
about how that could
become part of a house,
or it could become
a mobile library.
There's a tremendous amount
of industrial materials
that are out in the landscape
that can be redeployed
in a variety of different ways.
For example, the
shipping container
is a terrific example.
I'm not spending energy on
creating it from scratch,
but I'm repurposing
it for another use.
The Joshua Tree prefab
is a modular home,
sits out on the desert floor,
and is a fully self-sufficient
structure, where it is not
attached to the electrical grid
and is not attached
to the water system.
It is a very simple
building that is really
meant to allow you to
sleep, to eat, and to relax,
that then can be moved
from location to location
at the snap of a finger.
I would say that
there absolutely
is a movement that is pervasive
throughout this country, where
people are looking
to be able to create
their environments without
having rules thrust upon them.
Within that thinking, there is
a difference in terms of scale.
So it's less about bigger
is better, and more
about smaller is smarter.
And that is connected
to the dwelling
that we have around us.
So the less stuff we have, the
lighter that the materials are,
the smarter they
become, the less
encumbered we become as people.
The buildings that I
create are not large,
and yet they have a
sense of volume to them.
They have natural light.
They have ceilings
that tend to be higher
than conventional houses
so that you feel expansive
in terms of height, but not
necessarily in terms of width.
If you can look outside
and be connected
to the natural
environment outside,
you are expanding
your space visually,
but not necessarily physically.
Innately as a human being, we
are nomadic and we're mobile
and we're curious, and we
will always be exploring.
Whether it's here in the
desert, or whether it's
out in space, or in the ocean,
we can't just let that go.
>> When I look at what I
consider to be beautiful
in the world, it's
what is necessary.
When something is truly
necessary, it becomes vital,
and it seems important,
and it seems beautiful.
The average American
house puts out
like 18 tons worth of
greenhouse gases per year,
consumes about a quarter
acre of woodland,
puts another seven tons
of construction waste
into the local landfill.
So I wanted to contribute to
that as little as I had to
and still have a
great place to live.
[MUSIC PLAYING]
I never did any building
until I decided to live small.
And I couldn't really afford to
have anybody else build for me.
So I built my own house, and
that's how I learned to do it,
just by doing.
I've actually lived in four
tiny houses of about this size.
The first one was pretty
much exactly this size.
The second one--
When I moved to California where
the land prices are expensive,
I wanted to make sure my
house was small enough
that I could parallel
park it by hand
if I had to live on the street.
Turned out I didn't have
to live on the street.
So I sold that one and
built another, larger one,
and then, finally, this one.
The first step to designing
a very small efficient space
seems to be figuring out
what you actually need,
and then getting
rid of everything.
So in my case, for example, I
don't cook very much at all.
So my counter's only three
and a half feet long.
If I cooked a lot, I might turn
the whole house into a kitchen.
But it's a matter
of deciding what
you need to do to be happy, and
then accommodating for that.
Because if you're not--
I guess the other side of living
simply is living too simply,
perhaps, and not having what you
need, which isn't good either.
The laws in the US say you can't
build a house that's too small.
There are a few different
rules in there that apply.
You've got to have a
room of 120 square feet.
Any bedroom has to be
at least 70 square feet.
When you add it all up, it's
bigger than I actually wanted.
So by putting a house on wheels,
it's no longer a building,
doesn't have to abide
by building codes,
and you can build it
as small as you want.
You just can't go too big,
because otherwise you're
probably going to
hit a bridge when
you're driving down the road.
It is sort of a
counter-cultural thing.
I think a lot of people
just don't like the fact
that they've been essentially
forced into larger spaces
than they actually
want to be in.
So besides just being
environmental and economic,
this whole thing is also sort
of a civil disobedience act.
It's a way of getting around the
forces that have forced people
into more house than
they actually wanted
or needed in the past.
I hope to build a village
within the next couple of years
in this county so
people don't always
have to fight the codes
and the zoning laws.
They can just live
in a tiny house
village, which will probably
be zoned as a trailer park,
oddly enough.
I've never really
thought of myself
as a trailer park
type of person,
but this won't be your
average trailer park.
It'll be lots of pedestrian
walkways, cars out back,
and it will basically
be co-housing
for the anti-social--
like shared some things,
but lots of privacy
in your little houses too.
I can fit a bed downstairs,
but if I put a bed downstairs,
I don't have--
I mean, that takes
up a lot of space.
So I just go up.
I like to use vertical space
as much as possible to make
things really efficient.
A house in which there's
a lot of wasted space
just doesn't feel vital.
And you fill it with a bunch
of stuff you don't really need.
Life itself seems
diminished a bit.
So in a house where
everything is necessary, life
itself seems very necessary.
And yeah, I feel very much
more alive in a small place.
[NON-ENGLISH SPEECH]
>> The reason why I'm
doing this project is
because it's something that
I believe that is really
necessary with the way that
civilization is growing over
the planet, and it's
something that can really heal
the ecology of the planet.
Coming from a town in
the north of England
where there's quite a bit of
pollution, a lot of industry,
I was always quite interested
in ecology from an early age.
This idea came over a number
of years when I was in my 30s
after thinking deeply about
spiritual things, and also
ecological state of the planet
and what the future could
be, with more
people all the time
and more trees getting
cut down, this idea
came to actually grow
plants and use the trash
to create a base for a
floating garden that just keeps
getting stronger with time.
[MUSIC PLAYING]
Making land out of
plastic bottles and trash,
and this whole island with the
house included is about 70%
recycled.
So I've got really quite
a comfortable home.
The way I begin to build the
island, it's just so simple.
You take one shipping
pallet, and then
you get the bags of bottles and
just put them on the back end
and tie them together.
When a plastic bottle is
underneath a floating island
in cool water where the
sun isn't getting on it,
it could last for
thousands of years.
We don't really know, but we
do know it last a lot longer.
And I actually took a
bag out after many years
of-- because I've been
doing this five years.
And so I've checked, and corals
are growing underneath on them.
And the tops get corals.
So you can't even take
the tops off afterwards.
And the idea is that it can get
big enough and strong enough
to actually go on the ocean
and float down, and eventually
go through the Panama Canal
and out onto the Pacific.
It's not like a boat.
Boats are solid and
they rock like this,
and it's a different thing.
An island, because
it's all flexible,
the wave comes through.
So the island actually rolls.
So I say boats rock,
but islands roll.
There's many ways to
use and recycle and make
wonderful homes.
And you put your love in
it, and the love comes back.
And other people who visit
enjoy it as well so much.
So this is a shower that
comes partially from rainfall.
It's creating more
uniqueness instead
of having the old houses
out of ticky tacky,
you know, every one the same.
Variety in life, I think,
is really, really important.
I've noticed that since
I kind of dropped out
a little bit from doing
the regular job, my life--
I can flow and feel
the spirit just taking
me one way or the other.
And as I do what I choose to
do, my energy flows into that
and actually produces
something more beautiful,
and there's more satisfaction.
[MUSIC PLAYING]
Now what we can do is we can
use all of this trash, which
is damaging the ecology,
and turning something really
beneficial to the whole
planet, create more oxygen,
filter, clean the water, put
the trash underneath, and create
more surface area for
people to live on.
We can heal the whole ecology
of the world using trash.
>> I'm trying to understand what
the culture of the next city
will be.
The city is not what we see now.
It's a kind of image that we
see of the city, but it's not--
it does not correspond
to its function anymore.
So you do not have the same
function of the street,
of the piazza, of urban space.
And I am very interested
about this condition that
started after the internet.
So it's a kind of forced
network culture that
has to do with the idea
of creating ensembles
through kind of populations
of fragmented units.
[MUSIC PLAYING]
The green rooms do
not have a roof.
They are open air structures.
They can function in
favorable weather conditions.
And they are there
in order to take
advantages of open air life.
They can orient themselves
towards the view
that is preferred.
But because of
their height, they
are isolated rooms for now.
So when the cranes are up and
they observe their nature,
let's say, it's
also another screen.
They show nature not as a
function, but only as an image.
Nature is a construction
that has to do
with an exotic view for me.
There is a naive understanding
of nature in what we know today
as a return to nature.
I am very distant to the idea
of making nature your god.
In this phase of
architecture, we
will not have to create out
of scratch, to reorder it,
to make new items
out of this garbage.
In the keg apartment, I
try to reuse [INAUDIBLE]
that I was always seeing
in the national road,
and I was thinking that there
is a huge space inside them.
So I thought that it would
be really interesting to be
inhabited in a way.
I was always thinking
about those windows
that would be open to the sky,
how it will feel to be inside.
So it's kind of a small
prison cell in a way.
It's a cell where somebody
can find himself momentarily.
We can be inside smaller spaces
without having the idea that we
are in smaller spaces.
And because our
window is now a screen
that can change endlessly.
Internet poses the condition
of a new minimalism.
This changes the architecture
of what a house is
or what a house would be.
The space that one needs in
order to observe his screen
is the space, a
minimum space of today.
The idea in concrete
beds has to do
with the concept of
understanding the internet
in a barbarian sense.
Cave society where
infrastructure is hidden,
but what we need is
only a place to sleep--
Internet and a cave.
We do not go toward a
more complex civilization,
but we go backwards
towards a cave society.
>> It just might be that out
here we're just not surrounded
by all the stuff
that's in cities.
And it just makes you
appreciate people more,
because you're not
inundated with stimuli
from every direction.
It's like my house
in upstate New York,
my property taxes alone
were $12,000 a year.
And just to sustain all that
stuff can be really expensive.
And to be able to just figure
out what you really need
and scale it back a little bit
it makes all the rest of life
easier.
[MUSIC PLAYING]
I worked in photography for
about six or seven years
in fashion photography, and then
I got kind of tired of fashion.
So I went onto set
and prop building.
I did that for about 10
years, got tired of that,
just got tired of being around
that many people all the time.
Since I didn't have a family,
I didn't have a wife, kids,
it was I could do
anything I wanted.
I started thinking
about how much room
did I really need to live in.
And it's kind of
strange, because I
lived in a 2,800
square feet, and now I
live in 128 square feet.
When I was six or
seven years old,
I used to think I wanted to
be a hermit when I grow up.
So this is perfect, because
five or six days will go by
and I won't see another
human, and I don't really
mind that too much.
Here it is.
Almost gone.
Oh, it's gone.
It's gone, buddy.
It's gone.
It's all gone.
Yes it is.
One of the other things that I
thought about quite a bit was I
wanted to do it all myself.
So I've done all the
construction by myself
on my house, both my
house and the greenhouse.
I don't really have
a schedule out here.
There's always something
to do, and then there's
always plenty of time
to sit back and relax.
My water collection system is--
I've got a huge greenhouse
roof that has gutters on it.
So when it rains, it
collects in the gutters
and it goes into
big storage tanks.
I experimented with
off-grid living a little bit
before I left upstate New York.
I had a little camp
I'd set up, and I'd
live out there
during the summers
and rent my big
farmhouse out to folks
from New York City that wanted
a weekend place for the summer.
And I'd learned to not
really make sacrifices,
but just learned a
different way of living
where you don't constantly
need electricity pouring out
of every corner of your house.
For me it was more about
living a simple lifestyle
and living debt-free.
And it's kind of like
being a high-tech pioneer.
Especially in the way the
world is just so crazy now
with so much going
on, it's nice to be
able to try to see how
much of my own needs
I can really provide for myself.
[MUSIC PLAYING]
I do have a phone line
that provides my phone
and my internet
access, but other than
that I'm disconnected.
Although I'm not
really a hermit,
because I have as many
as 50 people watching
one of my webcams every day.
I've got 1,300 people
reading my blog every day.
I get input and feedback
on things I'm doing,
but from a distance.
I don't have to be around them,
and I kind of appreciate that.
The quiet is unimaginable.
It's just so quiet out here.
I remember, when I first
moved to New York City,
how I couldn't go to sleep
tonight because of the noise.
But it wasn't
because of the noise.
It was because
something was going on
and I was missing something.
And now it's like the
complete opposite.
I'm not missing a thing
except this beautiful quiet
I'm listening to.
>> There's like a very
vicious way about the world.
It's really subtracts us, but
in the same time, it opens us.
As we're always reachable
with always our own building
finally, and it brings us
back to some of our roots.
We can be all together,
but by yourself.
Finally, today, if you think
about the housing, what is it?
It's a closet.
It's something that
you can find anywhere,
except that it's
getting sentimental.
Because you can have everything
that you have in a house,
you can have it elsewhere.
You can eat better
in a restaurant.
You can have a better--
You can wash yourself
much better in a spa.
And all those elements
are offered in the city.
But still, we still think of
housing as the only shelter
that we could have.
And it's just basically very--
just very emotional,
because out of that,
when you think about it,
it's just full of object
that you bring that
are just memories.
But out of that,
it can be anywhere.
[MUSIC PLAYING]
I started in '87
around graffiti.
When I used to paint
as a graffiti artist,
I was always chasing spots
in the city, eclectic spots.
But I was going
intuitively into a field
that I carry on exploring now,
because all of those spots
are all the spots that I
organized my architecture
installation and works around.
We're going to be facing,
in the next 20-30 years,
really huge amount of people
that will come in the city.
The point is that
architects today
are only bound to answer to
competition most of the time.
And the problem
about the competition
is that it never asks the why.
How can we build
an alternative way?
In France, we have like a
very long tradition of strike.
It really came from the
roots of social events,
because finally people do a
lot of striking in France.
But at the end of the
day, sometimes they sit,
and then, after, they go.
The [INAUDIBLE]
de France project
is a place for
them to settle down
and to try to recreate
a new social scenario.
[MUSIC PLAYING]
So the idea is to create
a city within the city
to create a pocket
of resistance that
could grow inside the city.
You use already
manufactured objects,
and you bring it into
the architecture.
So it's like ready-made
in architecture.
Prefabs you need that you
use on the construction site,
because it's very
fast, it's very cheap,
installations are done.
All of those elements
can come there by trucks,
and then it could really
grow into a larger pocket,
and could grow to
something very strong.
So it's more about a
strategy than a form.
I think it's not
relevant so much
anymore to destroy the
buildings, because when you
destroy some stuff, you
destroy a part of a city,
and destroy the
history of the people.
And transforming is
actually a very good way.
The city, when you look
at it as an open ground,
there's multiple wave on
the rooftop, on the wall,
underneath the bridges,
in between the buildings,
on the gaps.
There's always a lot of places
where a parasite architecture
can be put on.
So the idea about that is
more architectural hijack.
It's such a strong protest.
It's such a way to recreate a
schism, a city inside a city,
that it could bring out--
it could totally
bring out civil war.
But if you decide to go by will
to recreate something new, then
for me, the violence
is getting legit.
>> So we need to find a whole
new definition of living
together.
I've been working with tents all
my life from when I was a kid.
We had a whole competition
in the neighborhood
in the back alleys.
The guy who had
the coolest tent,
he had everything to say about--
he had the power.
[MUSIC PLAYING]
So originally, those
tents were meant
to comfort the life
of tree activists.
It would give them a
more comfortable stay
during their actions in the--
during their occupations
of the forest
to stay there a very long time.
Imagine this tent hanging
very high in a trunk.
You cannot cut down the trees.
Imagine we have loads of them.
You cannot cut down the forest,
and the activists still would
have a comfortable stay.
It was just designed by
hanging in a circular floor
with a rope against
a tree, and then you
were walking against this rope.
So I designed a bypath
to you can still
move around in this tent.
It's very spacious.
Four meters high,
and 260 in diameter,
the weight of the steel
frame is 300 kilos.
A tent is our common house.
It's not the house,
but our common house.
That's makes a difference.
A house is immediately closed
and is closing everything.
It's not inviting.
So it's inviting,
and it pays respect
to the privacy of people.
Creating your own space, being
able to live wherever you want,
having some kind of comfort
in the middle of nowhere,
that is giving my
working practice
a goal for the rest of my life.
[MUSIC PLAYING]
In the city, to work with public
spaces is always a problem.
Well, look here, in the
middle of the nature.
It's just a calm and
easy project here.
You are hanging there,
free from the ground
and free from the trunk,
just in the space,
and the space is all around you.
That is what I experience
here very much,
and what I am looking
for in my work--
how we relate to each other,
how we turn around each other.
OK.
Most of life is happening
in houses, of course
in the pubs and the
cafes, but that is still
not only a free public space.
Find a free public
space where people
from all of the city, all
layers of the society,
are able to come
together in a free way.
That's not an easy
thing we can do.
And most of the time, we
don't succeed in this.
So I think there's
still a long way
to go to design cities in this
way, maybe more with textile.
It would be great.
>> If you get used to a more
confined space for an everyday
living situation, you can really
cheat some of the repressive
forces in society.
Most children love to build
like a little cave or something,
an enclosed space where you can
hide away from the grown ups.
I'm still doing that.
I just make them a
little bit bigger.
[MUSIC PLAYING]
Steel shell system
is a very radical way
of creating a home that you
could actually roll around
yourself in front of you.
You could also use it as a raft
to cross a river or a harbor,
or something like that.
It was inspired-- I was
staying in Greenland,
and I was studying
traditional Inuit culture.
In the wintertime they
would build igloos.
They would build
like a whole village,
a whole city in
hours on the snow,
sort of passages, open roads.
And they were live there
temporarily for three or four
months, and then
would split up again.
They would do the same
thing the next winter.
So I was fascinated by the
mobility and the temporary sort
of character of this
kind of dwelling system.
And I wanted to introduce
a similar system.
I think the most important
way it influences
people is that it starts
to make them think
about their own situation.
And if you compare like the
average sort of middle class
citizens in the Western
worlds' normal living
situation with a nomadic
lifestyle, it's very different.
I'm very interested
in finding ways
of existing with the smallest
concentrations of power
possible.
That means that we have to
get rid of land ownership.
We have to get rid of large bank
loans, all those things that
keeps us in one position in
our life, that prevents us
from using a large
amount of our time
to be nice to our children,
and to be nice to other people,
and to play with other people.
I'm constantly chasing ways of
existing that would free myself
from the normal economical
system that would keep me
in a fixed position in order to
pay my bank loans and so forth.
My walking house is
a very peaceful way
of existing, where you have
a very small footprint.
You can move around
without owning
the land and stuff like that.
It's a very different
way of living.
social way of existing.
It's about trying to introduce
other ways of thinking
and other ways of living, and to
start off discussions, and give
people an experience
of something different.
And I think the chance of
creating a better world,
saying I want to
create a better world,
is much bigger than if we don't
want to create a better world.
[MUSIC PLAYING]
I try to introduce
some kind of hope
in thinking about our future.
The thing that would
normally always happen
when I do something in public
space, because it's different--
People get attracted
to it, and that's
the starting point
of communication
on many different levels.
People get an experience.
They feel something.
They may feel some kind of
significance in the situation,
and you start talking together,
and you exchange experiences.
And that's what
art is all about.
That's what architecture
is all about.
That's what design is all about.
And I think if you
could just move things
a little bit in
another direction
and make new things
happen, then I
think your mission is
sort of accomplished.
>> Well, shelter is the
most basic human need.
A sleeping bag dress
is a kimono-type dress
that, when inflated, it changes
into a cylinder or cocoon
in which a person can sleep.
It comes very much from
my personal experiences.
Moving from different
countries, moving
through different
languages sort of
brought up a lot of
questions about belonging.
Where is my home?
I have a solar panel
incorporated into it
and a small computer fan.
So the solar panel
charges the battery,
and computer fan operates
off the batteries.
Experimentation
was always there--
The idea of belonging,
the idea of shelter,
the idea of space where
we feel comfortable.
But that mobility that
this process creates,
I think what I was after--
To capture this
moment in the sense
in between, because
since I left Poland,
it's always been
being in between.
Today we are more free
in terms of moving
through those
boundaries than before.
I think traveling
really is the best
way of opening an
eye to differences,
and then hopefully,
also, become more
tolerant to the differences.
I was very much
interested in the idea
of nomadism, which denies that
idea of homeland sort of as
a place of belonging.
I believe that the
modern nomad is
a person that doesn't get stuck
in a particular structure.
With that comes a
certain open-mindedness.
To feel connected, we
don't need that much space.
Maybe it's by contrast.
I think the idea of
being close to the body,
it's sort of related,
also, to the question--
Well, how much do you need?
How much, also,
comfort do you need?
So you are protected,
you are kind of isolated,
but at the same time, you
are part of the environment.
My expression presents
the idea of home
that is basically anywhere.
Home is where you are.
I still share the
'60s fascination
with technology, and
a belief in technology
and in bettering the world.
I mean, the technology showed
alternative possibilities
of living.
And perhaps people
can imagine that there
are different possibilities
to what they are used to.
That opens this flexibility
of imagination, including
how we perceive the world.
[MUSIC PLAYING]